Hi Sheena and Arseniy,

I like it!

I think this is the way forward, not only because it saves me a lot of work (which is much appreciated, of course), but also because it is so flexible: if we wanted to show only a subset of viruses in the information meeting, this could be done with a few clicks (and can be changed last moment, if, say, John McC has a change of heart about inclusion of certain viruses…); I can do that in my Excel spreadsheets, but it’s more of a faff.

 

Here are just a few thoughts to see whether other things could be incorporated into your system:

I show relative GMTs, not absolute ones, because the absolute titres can vary very widely between labs (setting the reference/vaccine virus for each lab and panel to 100). Could this be done in the titrevisualizer?
In my tables, I also calculate mean reductions relative to the reference/vaccine virus – this is based on the notion that we have this arbitrary cut-off of 50% reduction being ‘significant’. Reduction is not calculated directly from GMTs (and the relative GMT graphs don’t mirror the mean reduction tables), because I don’t use negative reductions (i.e. increases in titres relative to the reference are set to 0% reduction). I don’t know whether this makes sense, and I can see that someone might argue I should use negative reductions for increased titres, but this is how I have always done it. Happy to move on from this, we just need to explain that data are not directly comparable to previous VCMs.
Other data in my tables, which we usually don’t even look at, are the percent of assays with ‘significant’ reductions. This measure is not really that important, I think, but what sometimes is useful to see is how many assays any given virus was tested in – we may have more confidence in data for a virus coming from 12 assays rather than for a virus that was tested with one panel in one lab only. I assume you could show, perhaps with colour or in some other way, the number of tests (panels) done on each virus.
Could you group viruses by subclades and show overall mean GMTs or reductions by group?
 

I attach my supplementary report from February so you don’t have to dig through your files to find examples of what I mean.